# - DAY 16 @ SURFBOARD PAYMENTS 



## - __INTRODUCTION TO FLUTTER:__

   - Flutter is a UI framework created by Google which is used to build mobile, web, and desktop apps using a single codebase. It uses Dart as its programming language and provides a set of pre-build widgets to create a apps.

   - Using Flutter , we can build apps for Android,iOS, Windows,macOS, Linux, and the web without writing seperate code for each platform.



## - __UI/UX Concepts:__  

   - UI/UX stands for User Interface(UI) and User Experience(UX).

   - UI: In UI, it is how things look in an app or website. Its like a structure of an application. It includes buttons, colors, fonts, layouts, icons, and animations. So, basically it is like a design of an app.

   - UX: In UX, It is how things work and how easy they are to use. It includes navigation, speed, accessibility, and how users feel when using the app. So. its used for smootyness and ease of using an app.

   - Example: Swiggy, Food delivery app. Here, UI is the app's colours, images, and button styles. UX is how quickly we can order without confusion. 

   - So, To make an app, Both UI and UX is needed. Both has an important role in creating an app.



## - __FIGMA:__

   - Figma is a cloud based UI/UX design tool used for creating websites, apps, and other designs also. It allows the   designers to collaborate in real time, basically it is similar to how google docs works in documentation. 

   - Figma is like a prototype of an application or wensite. for example, if we are going to construct a house, the architect will give a prototype of the building (A structural represntation). figma is also like thta, it is a prototype of a app that should be designed.

   - We use Figma because It works on any devices like it can even run our browser. We can collaborate with multiple people to design together in live. We can create interactive app or website demos. We can also reuse design elements and autonate our tasks.



## - __BASIC WIDGETS IN FLUTTER: __

   - _STATELESS WIDGET:_ A widget that does not chnage over time. It does not store any data. It is best for static UI  elements. EXample: Text, Icon, Image
 
   - _STATEFULWIDGET:_ A widget that can change dynamically and maintain state. It is useful for interactive elements like buttons and  counters. it uses setState() to update the UI.Example: buttons, Counters.

   - _SCAFFOLD:_ Scaffold provides a basic structure of an app. It has App Bar, body, Floating Action button, Navigation bar, etc. It acts as a container for other widgets.
 
   - _APP BAR:_ A top navigation bar with a title and optional buttons. 

   - _MAIN AXIS and CROSS AXIS:_  It is used in row and coloumn for alignment. You can control how a row and coloumn align its children using the mainAxisAlignment and crossAxisAlignment properties. For a row, the main axis runs horizontally and the cross axis runs vertically. For a coloumn, the main axis runs vertically and the cross axis runs horizontally. 
   - _CONTAINER:_ It is like a box that holds other widgets. It can have colour, padding, margin, borders, and more.

   - _STREAMS:_ It is used for real time data updates(eg: live chat, sensor data). It works asynchronously.

   - _ValueNotifier:_ It is a special variable that notifes the UI when the value changes. It is lighter than streams   for small updates.

   - _StreamController:_ A controller that manages streams(allowing adding and listening to data).



   - After studying these, designed a login page in figma and created a code for that exact design in flutter. 



## - _DATA:_

        - Data refers to values stored in variables. Data is everything. It differs in two ways, constant and varies. A collection of data is called Database. Variables contains the data. 

        - There are two types of data type: Primitive and Complex. In primitive data type, we can say String, int,      boolean are primitive. In Complex, we can say Array, Map, Objects are complex data type. 


## - _FUNCTIONS:_

        - Functions performs tasks and help in reusing code.So basically, Function has four things. They are, function  name, function parameters, function body and return type. So to declare a function, we should have these four basic things. But declaring alone is not useful. We have to call the function, the only the function will be used. When we call the function, it will take the values in parameters and performs the function and returns the value. So, A function has two things, one is declaration of the function and another one is calling the function.

             Syntax: 
                    return type func name (function parameters)
                        {
                            function body;
                        }


## - _TYPED and UNTYPED LANGUAGES:_

        - Programming languages handle data types differnetly, some reuire strict rules for types, while others are more flexible. 

        - In Typed language, it cares about types when we use variables. If we declare a variable as a number, we cannot change it to text later.

        - In typed, there are two types: Statically typed and dynamically typed. In Statically typed we should define the data type of a variable before using it. Example: C, C++, Java. In dynamically typed we don't have to declare types in advance. the type of variable can change while the program is running. Example: Python, Dart.

        - In Untyped languages, these languages don't care about types at all. variables just hold values. and the system doesn't check for type errors. Example: Assembly language. Javscript is a Untyepd language.



## - _CLASS:_

        - Class is like a blueprint for creating objects. It defines properties(variables) and behaviour (function/methods) that objects will have.

        - Example: 
                    class Dog{
                        String Name;
                        int cost;
                        int age;
                        String gender;}

## - _OBJECT:_

        - An Object is a real world instance of a class. We can creta emultiple objects from a single class. Each Object will have its own values but follows the class structure. 

        - Example: 
                    Dog dog1 = Dog("Tommy",100000, 1, "Male")

        - Everytime, we create a class a constructor will also be cretaed. 


## - _CONSTRUCTOR:_
    
        - A constructor is a special function in a class that automaticllay runs when an object is created. It is used  to initialize object properties. It automatically assigns value when an object is created. It saves time and ensures object always have valid data.
